.\" Manpage for gcalcli.
.TH man 1 "28 September 2024" "4.5.0" "gcalcli Manual"
.SH NAME
gcalcli \- interact with a Google Calendar
.SH SYNOPSIS
gcalcli [options] command [command args or options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gcalcli is a Python application that allows you to access your Google
Calendar(s) from a command line. It's easy to get your agenda, search for
events, add new events, delete events, edit events, and even import those
annoying ICS/vCal invites from Microsoft Exchange and/or other sources.
Additionally, gcalcli can be used as a reminder service and execute any
application you want when an event is coming up.
.SH USAGE

usage: gcalcli [-h] [--version] [--client-id CLIENT_ID]
               [--client-secret CLIENT_SECRET] [--noauth_local_server]
               [--config-folder CONFIG_FOLDER] [--noincluderc]
               [--calendar GLOBAL_CALENDARS]
               [--default-calendar DEFAULT_CALENDARS] [--locale LOCALE]
               [--refresh] [--nocache] [--conky] [--nocolor]
               [--lineart {fancy,unicode,ascii}]
               {init,list,search,edit,delete,agenda,agendaupdate,updates,conflicts,calw,calm,quick,add,import,remind,config,util}
               ...

Google Calendar Command Line Interface

configuration:
  gcalcli supports a few other configuration mechanisms in addition to
  the command-line arguments listed below.

  $GCALCLI_CONFIG=~/.config/gcalcli
    Path to user config directory or file.
    Note: this path is also used to determine fallback paths to check
    for cache/oauth files to be migrated into their proper data dir
    paths.

  ~/.config/gcalcli/config.toml
    A toml config file where some general-purpose settings can be
    configured.
    Schema:
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/insanum/gcalcli/HEAD/data/config-schema.json

  gcalclirc @ ~/.config/gcalcli/gcalclirc
    A flag file listing additional command-line args to always pass,
    one per line.
    Note: Use this sparingly and prefer other configuration mechanisms
    where available. This flag file mechanism can be brittle
    (example: https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/issues/513).

positional arguments:
  {init,list,search,edit,delete,agenda,agendaupdate,updates,conflicts,calw,calm,quick,add,import,remind,config,util}
                        Invoking a subcommand with --help prints subcommand
                        usage.
    init                initialize authentication, etc
    list                list available calendars
    search              search for events within an optional time period
    edit                edit calendar events
    delete              delete events from the calendar
    agenda              get an agenda for a time period
    agendaupdate        update calendar from agenda TSV file
    updates             get updates since a datetime for a time period
                        (defaults to through end of current month)
    conflicts           find event conflicts
    calw                get a week-based agenda in calendar format
    calm                get a month agenda in calendar format
    quick               quick-add an event to a calendar
    add                 add a detailed event to the calendar
    import              import an ics/vcal file to a calendar
    remind              execute command if event occurs within <mins> time
    config              utility commands to work with configuration
    util                low-level utility commands for introspection, dumping
                        schemas, etc

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  --client-id CLIENT_ID
                        API client_id (default: None)
  --client-secret CLIENT_SECRET
                        API client_secret (default: None)
  --noauth_local_server
                        Provide instructions for authenticating from a remote
                        system using port forwarding. Note: Previously this
                        option invoked an "Out-Of-Band" variant of the auth
                        flow, but that deprecated mechanism is no longer
                        supported. (default: True)
  --config-folder CONFIG_FOLDER
                        Optional directory used to load config files.
                        Deprecated: prefer $GCALCLI_CONFIG. (default:
                        ~/.config/gcalcli)
  --noincluderc         Whether to include ~/.gcalclirc. (default: True)
  --calendar GLOBAL_CALENDARS
                        Which calendars to use, in the format "CalendarName"
                        or "CalendarName#color". Supported here globally for
                        compatibility purposes, but prefer passing to
                        individual commands after the command name since this
                        global version is brittle. (default: [])
  --default-calendar DEFAULT_CALENDARS
                        Optional default calendar to use if no --calendar
                        options are given (default: [])
  --locale LOCALE       System locale (default: )
  --refresh             Delete and refresh cached data (default: False)
  --nocache             Execute command without using cache (default: True)
  --conky               Use Conky color codes (default: False)
  --nocolor             Enable/Disable all color output (default: True)
  --lineart {fancy,unicode,ascii}
                        Choose line art style for calendars: "fancy": for
                        VTcodes, "unicode" for Unicode box drawing characters,
                        "ascii" for old-school plusses, hyphens and pipes.
                        (default: fancy)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B "Encoding issues, wrongly printed characters, UnicodeEncodeError when using
conky, in pipes or scripts"
.RS
 - Set an environment variable PYTHONIOENCODING=utf8
 - Use a Unicode capable font like DejaVu Sans Mono
 - Set option --lineart=unicode or --lineart=ascii
.RE
.B "No colors or garbage characters when using inside conky"
.RS
 - Set option --conky
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
bash(1)

.SH BUG REPORTS
Report issues at https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/issues
.SH AUTHORS

Eric Davis (edavis@insanum.com)

Brian Hartvigsen (brian.andrew@brianandjenny.com)

Joshua Crowgey (jcrowgey@uw.edu)
